The far end of town  
where the Grickle-grass grows  
and the wind smells slow-and-sour when it blows  and no birds ever sing excepting old crows ...  
is the Street of the Lifted Lorax. 
And deep in the Grickle-grass, some people say,  if you look deep enough you can still see, today,  where the Lorax once stood  
just as long as it could  
before somebody lifted the Lorax away. 

You won't see the Once-ler.    
Don't knock at his door.  
He stays in this Letkitn, cold undet the toof,  where he makes his own clothes  
out of miff-muffered moof.  
And on special dank midnights in August,  he peeks  
out of the shutters  
and sometimes he speaks  
and tells how the Lorax was lifted away.  
He'll tell you, perhaps ...  
if you're willing to pay. 
-- 
On the end of a rope  
he lets down a tin pail  
and you have to toss in fifteen cents  and a nail  
and the shell of a great-great-great grandfather snail. 
The he pulls up the pail,  makes a most careful count  to see if you've paid him  the proper amount. 
Then he hides what you paid him  
away in his Snuvv,  
his secret strange hole  
in his gruvvulous glove.  
Then he grunts, "I will call you by Whisper-rna-Phone,  for the secrets I tell are for your ears alone." 
SLUPPI    
Down slupps the Whisper-tna-Phone to your eat  and the old Once-ler's whispers are not very clear,  since they have to come down  
through a snergely hose,  
and he sounds  
as if he had  
smallish bees up his nose.  
''Now I'll tell you," he says, with his teeth sounding gray,  ''how the Lorax got lifted and taken away ...  
It all started way back ...  
such a long, long time back. .. 
Way back in the days when the grass was still green  and the pond was still wet  
and the clouds were still clean,  
and the song of the Swomee-Swans rang out in space ...  one morning, I came to this glorious place.  And I first saw the trees!  
The Truffula Trees!  
The bright-colored tufts of the Truffula Trees!  Mile after mile in the fresh morning breeze. 
And, under the trees, I saw Brown Bar-ba-loots  frisking about in their Bar-ba-loot suits  as they played in the shade and ate Truffula Fruits.  
--· 
But those trees! Those trees!  Those TrN.fJNia Trees!  
All my life I'd been searching  for trees such as these.  The touch of their tufts  was much softer than silk.  And they had the sweet smell  of fresh buttery milk. 
I felt a great leaping  of joy in my heart.  I knew just what I'd dol  I unloaded my cart. 
 ao-tb.ne&)ll.lliid bUilt a waD  ·  
Then t  ped doWn a Tmffvl• TRe with one chop.  And with great skilifulskill ud with great speedy speed,  I tOok the soft taft. And I knitted a Tlmeedl  

"'Mister!'" he said with a sawdusty sneeze,  
""I am the Lorax. I speak for the trees.  
I speak for the trees, for the trees have no tongues.  And I'm asking you, sir, at the top of my lungs"­ he was very upset as he shouted and puffed- 
'Whal's thai THING yo11've made 0111 of my Tn f!Nia 1Nft1"  - -
"Look, Lorax," I said. ((There's no cause for alarm.  I chopped just one tree. I am doing no harm.  rm being quite useful. This thing is a Thneed.  A Thneed's a Fine-Something-That-All-People-Need!    
It's a shirt. It's a sock. It's a glove. It's a hat.  But it has other. uses. Yes, far beyond that,  You can use it for carpets. For pillows! For sheets!  Or curtains! Or covers for bicycle seats!"  
The Lorax said,  
('Sir! You are crazy with greed.  
There is no one on earth  
who would buy that fool Thneedl" 
But the very next minute I proved he was wrong.  For, just at that minute, a chap came along,  and he thought that the Thneed I had knitted was great.  He happily bought it for three ninety-eight.  
I laughed at the Lorax, "You poor stupid guy!  You never can tell what some people will buy." 

"I repeat," cried the Lorax,  "I speak for the trees!" 
"I'm busy," I told him.  
"Shut up, if you please."  

I rushed 'cross the room, and in no time at all, ...  built a radio-phone. I put in a quick call.  
I called all my brothers and uncles and aunts  and I said, "Listen here! Here's a wonderful chance  for the whole Once-ler Family to get mighty rich!  Get over here fast! Take the road to North Nitch.  Turn left at Weehawken. Sharp right at South Stitch."  

And, in no time at all,  in the factory I built,  
the whole Once-ler Family  was working full tilt.  
We were all knitting Thneeds  just as busy as bees,  
to the sound of the chopping  of Truffula Trees. 
Then ...  
Ohl Baby! Ohl  
How my business did growl  Now, chopping one tree  at a time  
was too slow. 
So I quickly invented my Super-Axe-Hacker  which whacked off four Truffula Trees at one smacker.  We were making Thneeds  
four times as fast as before!  
And that Lorax? ...  
He didn't show up any more. 

But the next week    
he knocked  
on my new office door.  
He snapped, "I'm the Lorax who speaks for the trees  which you seem to be chopping as fast as you please.  But I'm also in charge of the Brown Bar-ba-loots  who played in the shade in their Bar-ba-loot suits  and happily lived, eating Trufula Fruits.  
"NOW ... thanks to your hacking my trees to the ground,  there's not enough Truffula Fruit to go 'round.  And my poor Bar-ba-loots are all getting the crummies  because they have gas, and no food, in their tummies! 
''They loved living here. But I can't let them stay.  They'll have to find food. And I hope that they may.  Good luck, boys," he cried. And he sent them away.   
I, the Once-ler, felt sad  
as I watched them all go.  
BUT ...  
business is business!  
And business must grow  
regardless of crnmmies in tummies, you know. 
  
I meant no hann. I most truly did not.  
But I had to grow bigger. So bisgcr I got.  
I biggcred my factory. I biggeted my toads.  
  

I biggcred my wagons. I biggcred the loads  

of the Thnccds I shipped out. I was shipping them forth  
to the South! To the Bastl To the Wcstl To the North!  I went right on biggering ... semng more Thnceds.  And I biggcred my money, which everyone needs. 
Then again he came back! I was fixing some pipes  when that old-nuisance Lorax came back with more gripes.  
''I am the Lorax," he coughed and he whiffed.  He sneezed and he snuffled. He snarggled. He sniffed.  "Once-lerl" he cried with a cruffulous croak.  "Once-lerl You're making such smogulous smoke!  My poor Swomee-Swans ... why, they can't sing a note!  No one can sing who has smog in his throat. 
"And so " said the Lorax , ,  "-please pardon my cough they cannot live here.  So I'm sending them off. 
"Where will they go? ...  
I don't hopefully know.  
They may have to fly for a month ... or a year ...  To escape &om the smog you've smogged-up around here. 
''What's more," snapped the Lorax. (His dander was up.)  ''Let me say a few words about Gluppity-Glup.  Your machinery chugs on, day and night without stop  making Gluppity-Glupp. Also Schloppity-Schlopp.  And what do you do with this leftover goo? ...  I'll show you. You dirty old Once-ler man, you! 

And then I got mad.  
I got terribly mad.  
I yelled at the Lorax, "Now listen here, Dad!  All you do is yap-yap and say 'Bad! Bad! Bad! Bad!'  Well, I have my rights, sir, and I'm tellingyou  I intend to go on doing just what I dol  
And, for your information, you Lorax, I'm figgering  on biggering  
and BIGGERING  
and BIGGERING  
and BIGGERING,  
turning MORE Truffula Trees into Thneeds  which everyone, EVERYONE, EVERYONE needs!" 
And at that very moment, we heard a loud whack!  From outside in the fields came a sickening smack  of an axe on a tree. Then we heard the tree fall.  The very last Tr  ffula Tree of them all
The Lora:x said nothing. Just gave me a glance .. .  just gave me a very sacL sad backward glance .. .  as he lifted himself by the seat of his pants.  And I'll never forget the grim look on his face  when he heisted himself and took leave of this place,  through a hole in the smog, without leaving a trace.  

And all that the Lorax left here in this mess  was a small pile of rocks, with the one word ... "UNLESS."  
Whatever that meant, well, I just couldn't guess. 5  

That was long, long ago.  
But each day since that day  
I've sat here and worried  
and worried away.  
Through the years, while my buildings   have fallen apart,  I've worried about it  
with all of my heart.  

"But now," says the Once-let,  
"Now thatyo11're here,  
the word of the Lo.rax seems perfectly clear.  
UNLESS  
someone like you  
cares a whole awful lot,  nothing is going to get better.  It's not. 

"SO ...  
Catch!" calls the Once-ler.  
He lets something fall.  
''It's a Truffula Seed.  
It's the last one of all!  
You're in charge of the last of the Truffula Seeds.  And Truffula Trees are what everyone needs.  Plant a new Truffula. Treat it with care.  Give it clean water. And feed it fresh air.  Grow a forest. Protect it from axes that hack.  Then the Lorax  
and all of his friends  
may come back." 

Join the Campaign to Help Save  the Real-Life Lorax Forest  
"UNLESS someone like you  
cares a whole awful lot,  
nothing is going to get better.  
It's not." -The Lorax  
